Found an issue? Talk about it in the RF Discord!
Got a suggestion? Talk about it in the RF Discord!
Wanna chat with other RF players? Join the RF Discord!
Sleeping won't skip nights instantly.
Sleeping speeds up various processes.
Zombies drop Cloth Scraps, used for making Beds... but you know that already.
Having an Atlas in your hotbar will display a minimap.
Bellows make fires last longer and speed up Furnaces, Ovens and Forges.
Bombs damage mobs, but not blocks.
Campfires grant Comfort when lit and stood near.
Crushing Cinnabar yields Redstone Dust.
Cooking Pots make meals and drinks that grant helpful effects.
Ovens cook meals and pastries that grant helpful effects.
Blaze Burners with Cooking Guides can cook automatically.
There are no Stone tools - only Copper tools.
Chainmail armor, Horse armor, Saddles and Name Tags are craftable in RF.
Creeper Spores spawn a horde of friendly Creepies when thrown.
Creepers won't damage terrain, but they will spawn Creepies.
The crosshair indicates your tool's effectiveness on the block in front of you.
Use a Pickaxe on Crying Obsidian to extract a Lachryte Tear.
Lachryte Tears can be melted down into Liquefied Lachryte.
Liquefied Lachryte is required to create a Nether Portal.
Upon death, a totem will appear at your death point which holds your items.
Discs can be smashed into fragments, which can be crafted into other discs.
A Diving Helmet and Backtanks will let you traverse underwater more easily.
Dunes are lush, two-toned deserts with Yucca trees and various other flora.
Leather armor protects against fall damage.
Chainmail armor damages attackers.
Copper armor has a unique effect when struck by lightning.
Golden tools increase drops from certain blocks and mobs.
Golden armor lightly protects against fire.
Iron armor provides light knockback resistance.
Rose Gold tools dig quickly and cause blocks to drop in their purest form.
Rose Gold armor protects against magic.
Steel tools dig slowly, but are durable and knock targets further away.
Steel armor provides good knockback resistance.
Diamond equipment is obtained by upgrading Iron equipment with Diamond Plating.
Diamond armor protects against projectile damage.
Electrum tools dig very quickly and deal extra damage when sprinting.
Electrum armor grants a movement speed boost.
Netherite tools light targets on fire and smelt mined blocks.
Netherite armor protects against fire and getting knocked back.
Necromium tools restore health when mining blocks & slow down targets.
Necromium armor weakens attackers.
Various enchantments you may be used to no longer exist in RF.
Etching Tables allow you to make your own music discs.
Animals can eat out of Feeding Troughs and breed by themselves.
Banners can be applied to Beds.
Flags can be placed on Sticks and then moved up and down.
Don't leave trees floating!
Item Vaults combine into bigger Vaults when placed next to each other.
Fluid Tanks combine into bigger Tanks when placed next to each other.
Item Drawers store up to 80 stacks of a single type of item.
Flutes can be assigned to tamed mobs and call them from far away.
Some fungi planted on Rich Soil will grow into colonies.
Furnace Boats can be fueled with Coal to go faster.
Furnace Minecarts will load chunks when fueled.
Lighting Copper-related blocks on fire will create green Cupric fire.
Hollow Logs let you crawl inside them by sneaking next to them.
Ice drops Ice Cubes when mined with a Pickaxe. They're crunchy.
Killing various mobs with Knives may cause them to drop extra items.
Days and nights are longer in RF.
Stripping Maple Logs sometimes reveals Sap that you can bottle.
Stripping Jungle Logs sometimes reveals Latex that you can bottle.
Stripping Rosewood Logs sometimes reveals Latex that you can bottle.
Stressometers visualise the stress level of your machines.
Speedometers visualise the speed of your machines.
Minecart Couplings allow you to link Minecarts together.
Watermelons cause you to spit seeds when consumed.
Wildfires drop Infernal Scrap.
Piglin Brutes drop Infernal Scrap.
Piglins and Hoglins can be made immune to zombification with a Golden Apple.
Zombified Piglins and Zoglins can be cured with Weakness and a Golden Apple.
Pikes come in various sizes and colors.
Rough gems can be polished with Sand Paper or a Grindstone.
Potato Cannons use various foods as ammo.
Presents allow you to gift a stack of items to a player.
Trapped Presents instantly release their contents when opened.
Redstone Links transmit Redstone signals wirelessly.
Rerack your trees!
Bundles, Sacks, Backpacks and Terrabins let you carry more items.
Bundles, Sacks, Backpacks and Terrabins can all be dyed.
Terrabins can be opened from inside the inventory by right-clicking on them.
Schematicannons can build for you when provided with blueprints and materials.
Skillets can be held or placed over fire to cook food on the go.
Skillets, Cooking Pots and Ovens always drop items or containers to their right.
All hail the Slabfish.
Baby Snails drop Snail Shell Pieces when they grow into adults.
Mountain Boots allow you to move faster over snowy blocks.
Soap can clean dye off blocks.
Stoves are like Campfires, except they have 6 spaces instead of 4.
Too many machines attached to a single power source may cause overstress.
Suspicious Stews can only be obtained from loot and Shiitake Mooshrooms.
You can find Wild Tea in Swamps and Wild Coffee in Basalt Deltas.
You can find Wild Eggplants in Jungles and Rainforests.
Thrashers roam Deep Frozen Oceans and attack if they locate you.
Torch Arrows place Torches where they land or light mobs they hit on fire.
Rose Gold Arrows fly far and knock mobs away.
Steel Arrows are heavy and deal more damage.
Lachryte Arrows swap you and your target's places.
Trains allow for mass item transport and highly stylish travel.
The wood type of Water Wheels can be changed by right-clicking with Planks.
There are numerous wood types in RF. Which one's your favorite?
Shearing Yaks yields Yak Hair, but it'll also make them angry at you.
Shearing Bears yields Bear Fur, but it'll also make them angry at you.
Shearing Mooblooms yields a few Buttercups and turn them into regular Cows.
Awoken Exopearls fly towards ruined structures.
Spirited Exopearls fly towards structures with spawners.
Hand a Binding Exopearl to another player to easily locate them.
Using Scaffolding can make building easier.
Lead can be used as an alternative to Iron in some recipes.
Compasses, Depth Gauges, Atlases and Spyglasses are helpful to bring along.
Paragliders allow for slower descension.
Smoke from fires boost you up when using a Paraglider.
Koi fish reduce hostile mob spawns in an area.
Large Obsidian spikes in the Nether are easy sources of Blazes.
Blaze Spawners fill empty Blaze Burners when right-clicked.
Cages allow you to capture smaller mobs.
The Nether is a lot taller and denser than normal.
Bronze has musical properties.
Use Display Boards to display specific information about your machinery.
Steam Engines provide large amounts of stress capacity.
Lava oceans in the Nether are big enough to pump out an infinite amount of lava.
Trains go through Nether Portals if there's a track on the other side.
Unstable Spawners spawn a horde of mobs which will drop extra goodies.
Craft Lightning Rods to redirect lightning, or create a cute buddy.
Large Boats carry higher amounts of passengers or larger ones.
Crawling through tight spaces can be useful in sticky situations.
Various recipes leave behind byproducts.
Sculk Shriekers give you three warnings before releasing the beast.
Ancient Cities contain high amounts of loot.
Deep in underwater caves, you may find groups of Nautili swimming around.
Hostile mobs become neutral on Easy difficulty.
Mimes copy your held item - and worn armor, if they hit you.
Deepers explode and destroy terrain, but are only found underground.
While Creepers don't destroy blocks, Deepers do.
Peepers only move when you're not looking.
Cameras allow you to capture precious moments.
Leather can be cut into scraps and used more efficiently.
Glow Ink Sacs can heal Dead Coral.
Cattails grow best on Mud.
Brushes allow you to brush some animals for drops.
Glue Brushes can glue blocks together.
Wax Brushes can wax loads of blocks at once.
Pressing Shift + T while hovering over an item will share it in chat.
Feeding a Golden Carrot to a Pig will make it find Truffles.
Feeding Corn Kernels to Chickens, Ducks or Turkeys will make them find Buried Bugs.
Worms shorten the time it takes to catch a fish.
Spider Legs shorten the time it takes to catch a fish.
Grubs decently shorten the time it takes to catch a fish.
Minnows decently shorten the time it takes to catch a fish.
Fireflies decently shorten the time it takes to catch a fish.
Caterpillars significantly shorten the time it takes to catch a fish.
Golden Worms significantly shorten the time it takes to catch a fish.
Tackle Boxes can customise Reinforced Fishing Rods.
Different Hooks have a different impact on the fishing experience.
Grappling Hooks will make Reinforced Fishing Rods act like grapnels.
Holding a Bucket of Water in the off-hand will make caught fish go in it.
Copper and Gold can be hammered into Sheets, with a chance of breaking.
Copper Golems are created with a Carved Pumpkin and a Lightning Rod.
Tuff Golems are created with a Carved Pumpkin, any Wool and a Tuff block.
Crops can be harvested by right-clicking them.
Ores cannot be destroyed by explosions.
Some Mechanical Crafting recipes require Slot Covers for empty slots.
Some Mechanical Crafting recipes require a Redstone pulse to activate.